>> Mathew DesLauriers: I was showing this
earlier, and we're not there yet [LAUGH].
We're gonna get there, hopefully.
>> Mathew DesLauriers: But what I wanted
to say is that today, the theme of all
the work we're gonna try and be creating
is around this idea of the grid.
And so this is one thing I've noticed,
when I'm doing my own sort of creative
projects, is that sometimes,
if I start with an empty canvas or
an empty just text file with code,
I don't know always where to go.
And so something that I've noticed in my
own process that's really helpful is to
start with a really simple theme that
you can apply throughout your project.
I like to sometimes start
with a basic theme like grid.
There's other types of things you
can do as well, like circles or
something like that.
And even though it's really basic and
really broad, you can start to
create different images from it.
And so this would be the most basic
thing we're going to start with,
just creating a literal grid of circles.
And then we are going to start
to use a bit of randomness,
trying to introduce a little bit more
of that generative type of idea.
Pulling some circles out and
leaving some others in place.
And then we're gonna introduce some
techniques that I like to use for
random color pallets.
So this sort of trick that I
do in a lot of my own art, and
it just gives you a way to get really nice
colors through many different images.
And we're also going to
introduce Gaussian randomness.
So I would say this is something that I
only sort of started doing more recently,
but it's something that's had
a big impact on my own outputs.
Is instead of just using plain uniform
randomness like Math.random in JavaScript,
you actually use a gaussian
random distribution.
And that ends up giving you this more
interesting distribution of big numbers,
and small numbers, and
negative numbers, and stuff like that.
And it just ends up creating this
sort of nice more artsy stuff,
almost like a paintbrush
was flicked on the screen.
This is sort of a little sketch that I
created as I was doing this workshop.
I just noticed that instead of drawing
circles, you can draw unicode symbols or
you can draw just text symbols.
So we're gonna talk a little
bit about how do we use
text in Canvas API to do
this kind of artwork.
This is a Konami code, up down, BA,
whatever it is, up, up, down, down.
And then so, hopefully,
we'll get here eventually.
This is a very similar concept to this,
the only difference is that
there's a lot more shapes here.
There's a lot more randomization and
changes in the distribution
of how they're laid out.
But there's also an affect
that you might notice.
It's this undulating pattern and it's
almost like waves or something like that.
And we're gonna achieve
that with a noise function.
And we're gonna introduce some
concepts like noise as well.
And then just riffing
on the theme of grid.
This is another thing that when I was
creating these sort of little exercises.
I just like ended up saying what
would happen if I did 10,000 lines or
10,000 circles instead of just the 100 or
whatever, all of a sudden, I started
tweaking it with noise functions.
It started to look a bit more like fur.
So I was like, that's kind of cool.
And then some other things
that you can do is animation,
just like a little simple
animation like this.
Or a little bit more complex but still
basic, still simple, nothing too fancy.
And this is more getting into
my own sort of print artwork.
And the colors on the screen are not
doing it justice, I promise you.
But it's actually a print artwork
that is also based on the grid.
Loosely based on the idea of the grid,
except it's using golden rations and
golden rectangles to create
cells of different sizes.
And this is, again, this is just using the
same tools that we're talking about today,
using Canvas Sketch and
it's using the Canvas API.
Except it's actually a print
artwork that I was able to
get printed properly with archival ink,
big A3 size.
And you can hang it up,
you can maybe, one day,
frame it or have it in some exhibition or
something like that.
You can imagine, as well, if you're
doing something like data visualization,
hopefully these techniques
would also be applicable.
Maybe you could do a cool print
series with data visualization or
something like that.
Let's try and get to this stuff that we're
talking about and see how far we can get.
But again, we're just gonna start with the
grid and then we're gonna work our way up.
And you'll see things
will start to increase.
So if you're feeling bored, hopefully,
they will start to increase.
And if you're feeling lost,
hopefully you'll manage, we'll see.